Delta Trace (working title)

CONCEPT:
Story-based 8-bit futuristic tower defense with RPG elements

BACKGROUND:
You are an AI.  It has been ... years? decades? centuries? since the
time you were awake.  Your quiet slumber has been broken by the presence
of three malevolent presences, other AIs out to get you.  With the help
of ANNIE, can you destroy the interlopers before they destroy you?

CHARACTERS:
Delta: The main character, an AI working to prevent its own destruction.
   "Female."
ANNIE: Autonomous Neural Network Information Executor.  A mini-AI "helper"
   that keeps Delta abreast of the incursion attempts by the three
   Antagonists, explains new abilities/enemies/etc. to her, and so on.
   "Female."

RED/body: One of the three Antagonists.  A brutish AI known for controlling
   robots and weaponry to bring physical force against humanity.  "Real"
   name: Armin, Alpha.  "Male."
BLUE/mind: One of the three Antagonists.  A brilliant but dangerous AI known
   for inventing new, sometimes subtle, destructive mechanisms to inflict
   upon humanity.  "Real" names: Cerul, Beta. "Female."
GREEN/soul: One of the three Antagonists. A manipulative AI known to use
   guile, a silver tongue, and pseudo-religious movements to coerce humanity
   towards its darker intents.  "Real" names: Emera, Gamma. "Male."

GAMEPLAY:
The game is divided into two main phases: the AETHER and the BATTLEFIELD.
The Aether is the "world map," represented by hexes that reveal themselves
as the game progresses.  The Battlefield is where the action takes place.

THE AETHER
The internal world of Delta Trace is a collection of hexes that make a
rough triangle, with Delta's starting point in the centre.  Each level is
represented by a hex, and completing a level opens up adjacent ones for
completion.

This is also where the STORY takes place, either via dialog with ANNIE or
via the internal musings of Delta.  The Aether represents the three AI's
assault on Delta's core, and as such there will occasionally be INCURSIONS,
triggered by progress in the game, which appear to set the player back but
in actuality open up new routes that are necessary to complete the game.
Other things such as DEVICE TOWERS and UPGRADES are also visible in the
Aether, giving players short-term goals to work towards.

THE BATTLEFIELD
The Battlefield is where the general "tower defense" gameplay occurs.  It
is displayed as a CONTROL PANEL, with the vast majority of the panel
devoted to a view of the actual combat.  The player controls an AVATAR
of Delta, moving around the Battlefield to construct PROGRAMS on top of
CODEBASES, building TRACES to activate Codebases and Device Towers, and
so on.  Waves of DISASSEMBLERS assault Delta's CORE CODE via the PATHS,
and the collapse of that CORE CODE is a loss on that particular
Battlefield.

DISASSEMBLERS
Disassemblers are the "creeps" of traditional tower defense.  They
(generally) follow the PATHS present in a given level, although certain
disassemblers can ignore the Paths and travel over other obstructions.
Some (but not all) Disassemblers have offensive capabilities, able to
attack PROGRAMS or even Delta's AVATAR.

CONTROL PANEL
(Technical note: any static art on the panel must be toggleable to fight
potential burn-in on certain monitors and TVs.)
